# *CAmpactor*: A Novel and Effective Local Search Algorithm for Optimizing Pairwise Covering Arrays

*CAmpactor* is a novel and effective local search algorithm for compacting given PCAs into smaller-sized ones. This repository includes the implementation of *CAmpactor*, the testing instances adopted in the experiments and the experimental results. 

**Note**: the *CAmpactor* in this branch is the version at the time of paper submission. For the other version, which is submitted as the artifact for evaluation and also has some enhancement on usability, please check [this repository](https://github.com/zqy1018/CAmpactor-the-tool). 

## Instructions for Building *CAmpactor*

```
sh build.sh
```

By executing this script file, users can build both *SamplingCA* and *CAmpactor*. Note that both *SamplingCA* and *CAmpactor* should be built on a 64-bit GNU/Linux operating system. 

**Tip:** Both *SamplingCA* and *CAmpactor* depend on *MiniSAT*, but *MiniSAT* may not compile successfully when using specific versions of `gcc`. In this case, users may seek for solutions on the Internet or in [the Github page of *MiniSAT*](https://github.com/niklasso/minisat). 

## Instructions for Running *CAmpactor*

After building *CAmpactor*, users may run it with the following command: 

```
./CAmpactor -i [INSTANCE_PATH] --init_PCA_path [INITIAL_PCA_PATH] -o [OUTPUT_PCA_PATH] <optional_parameters> <optional_flags>
```

For the required parameters, we list them as follows. Note that the optimized PCA is of the same form as the initial PCA constructed by *SamplingCA*. 

| Parameter | Type | Description | 
| - | - | - |
| `-i` | string | path of the input CNF instance |
| `--init_PCA_path` | string | path of the initial PCA generated by *SamplingCA* |
| `-o` | string | path to which the optimized PCA is saved |

For the optional parameters, we list them as follows. 

| Parameter | Type | Default Value | Description | 
| - | - | - | - |
| `--gamma` | integer | 10000 | used to control the termination criterion | 
| `--psi` | float number | 0.1 | used to control the forced patching technique | 
| `--delta` | integer | 10 | used to control the assignment-level forbidden mechanism | 
| `--seed` | integer | 1 | random seed |

Note that by setting `--delta` to -1, *CAmpactor* works without assignment-level forbidden mechanism; by setting `--psi` to 0.0, *CAmpactor* works without forced patching technique. 

For the optional flags, we list them as follows. 

| Flag | Description | 
| - | - |
| `--use_cell_tabu` | if set, the assignment-level forbidden mechanism will be replaced with cell-level tabu mechanism |
| `--nosimplcnf` | if set, the input will not be simplified with `bin/coprocessor` |

**Tip:** *CAmpactor* adopts *SamplingCA* as its initialization algorithm. As described in the repository of *SamplingCA*, *SamplingCA* employs a tool named *Coprocessor* to simplify input CNFs. Therefore, in order to conform to *SamplingCA*, by default *CAmpactor* utilizes `bin/coprocessor` to simplify input CNFs as well. The flag `--nosimplcnf` controls this behavior. For issues related with this simplification mechanism, users may find the tip in [SamplingCA/README.md](SamplingCA/README.md) useful. 

## Example Command for Running *CAmpactor*

We provide a bash script `simple_run.sh` for users to run *CAmpactor* in an end-to-end manner. That is, by executing this bash script, users can obtain a PCA which is initially constructed by *SamplingCA* and then optimized by *CAmpactor*. 

**Note**: For running *SamplingCA* separately, users may refer to the instructions in [SamplingCA/README.md](SamplingCA/README.md). For running *CAmpactor* separately, users may refer to the instructions in the above section. 

The usage of `simple_run.sh` is as follows. 

```
sh simple_run.sh [RANDOM_SEED] [INSTANCE_PATH] [OUTPUT_PCA_NAME]
```

An example of running `simple_run.sh`: 

```
sh simple_run.sh 1 cnf_benchmarks/linux.cnf linux_PCA.out
```

The command above calls *SamplingCA* to solve the instance `cnf_benchmarks/linux.cnf` with default hyper-parameter settings, and then calls *CAmpactor* to optimize the initial PCA with default hyper-parameter settings. The result is stored in `linux_PCA.out`. And here both *SamplingCA* and *CAmpactor* uses random seed 1. 

## Implementation of *CAmpactor*

The directory named `src/` includes the implementation of *CAmpactor*. 

## Testing Benchmarks for Evaluating *CAmpactor*

The directory named `cnf_benchmarks/` contains all 124 testing benchmarks. We also provide [Benchmark_information.csv](./Benchmark_information.csv) which shows the number of options and the number of constraints for each benchmark. 

## Implementation of Main Competitors of *CAmpactor*

As presented in the paper, the main competitors of *CAmpactor* include *SamplingCA*, as well as *AutoCCAG*, *FastCA* and *TCA* (with *SamplingCA* as the initialization algorithm). 

The implementation of *SamplingCA* is in the same directory as this document, and we make the implementations of the other three PCAG solvers involved in our experiment (*AutoCCAG*, *FastCA* and *TCA*) also publicly available. Their sources are clarified in the paper (Section 5.2). Originally these tools are encapsulated as CA generators rather than reducers. For our purpose, we did minimal modification to remove their original initialization phases and to enable them to take initial PCAs from *SamplingCA*. 

For instructions of running *SamplingCA*, users may refer to [SamplingCA/README.md](./SamplingCA/README.md). For instructions of running the other three solvers, users may refer to [main_competitors/README.md](./main_competitors/README.md). 

**Note**: We also evaluate the performance of other four influential PCAG algorithms, *i.e.*, *HHSA*, *CASA*, *ACTS* and *CTLog*, whose original implementations can be obtained through following links:

- *HHSA*: http://www0.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/Yue.Jia/projects/cit_hyperheuristic/downloads/Comb_Linux_64.tar.gz
- *CASA*: https://cse.unl.edu/~citportal/
- *ACTS*: https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/automated-combinatorial-testing-for-software/downloadable-tools
- *CTLog*: http://hardlog.udl.cat/static/doc/ctlog/html/index.html

For the evaluation results of *HHSA*, *CASA*, *ACTS* and *CTLog*, readers can refer to [this CSV file](experimental_results/Results_of_CAmpactor_and_its_SOTA_competitors.csv).

## Experimental Results

The directory `experimental_results/` contains 7 `.csv` files for presenting the experimental results. 
- [Results_of_CAmpactor_and_its_SOTA_competitors.csv](https://github.com/chuanluocs/CAmpactor/blob/master/experimental_results/Results_of_CAmpactor_and_its_SOTA_competitors.csv): Results of *CAmpactor* (with *SamplingCA* as its initialization algorithm) and its state-of-the-art competitors on all testing instances. 
- [Results_of_CAmpactor_and_its_alternative_versions.csv](https://github.com/chuanluocs/CAmpactor/blob/master/experimental_results/Results_of_CAmpactor_and_its_alternative_versions.csv): Results of *CAmpactor* and its alternative versions on all testing instances.
- [Results_of_CAmpactor_with_different_gamma_settings.csv](https://github.com/chuanluocs/CAmpactor/blob/master/experimental_results/Results_of_CAmpactor_with_different_gamma_settings.csv): Results of *CAmpactor* with different $\gamma$ settings on all testing instances.
- [Results_of_CAmpactor_with_different_delta_settings.csv](https://github.com/chuanluocs/CAmpactor/blob/master/experimental_results/Results_of_CAmpactor_with_different_delta_settings.csv): Results of *CAmpactor* with different $\delta$ settings on all testing instances.
- [Results_of_CAmpactor_with_different_psi_settings.csv](https://github.com/chuanluocs/CAmpactor/blob/master/experimental_results/Results_of_CAmpactor_with_different_psi_settings.csv): Results of *CAmpactor* with different $\psi$ settings on all testing instances.
- [Results_of_CAmpactor_on_its_generality.csv](https://github.com/chuanluocs/CAmpactor/blob/master/experimental_results/Results_of_CAmpactor_on_its_generality.csv): Results of the generality of *CAmpactor* (with *AutoCCAG*, *FastCA* and *TCA* as its initialization algorithms) on all testing instances.
- [Results_of_two_versions_of_AutoCCAG_FastCA_TCA.csv](https://github.com/chuanluocs/CAmpactor/blob/master/experimental_results/Results_of_two_versions_of_AutoCCAG_FastCA_TCA.csv): Results of the versions of *AutoCCAG*, *FastCA* and *TCA*, which employ *SamplingCA* as their initialization algorithms, and the original versions of *AutoCCAG*, *FastCA* and *TCA*, which use their own, original initialization algorithms.

## Main Developers

- Qiyuan Zhao (<zqy1018@hotmail.com>)
- Chuan Luo (<chuanluophd@outlook.com>)

## Reference

Qiyuan Zhao, Chuan Luo, Shaowei Cai, Wei Wu, Jinkun Lin, Hongyu Zhang, Chunming Hu. *CAmpactor: A Novel and Effective Local Search Algorithm for Optimizing Pairwise Covering Arrays.* To appear in Proceedings of ESEC/FSE 2023. 
